[Music]
hey how's it going Dave 2d here so this
is the Acer Aspire 5 now this is a
laptop that is surprisingly not marketed
as a gaming laptop but it's very capable
at playing most triple-a titles in 2017
now this thing goes for $600 that's the
retail price I think occasionally it
might hit 550 on Amazon I'll drop a link
below for just the most accurate pricing
but this thing has the new NVIDIA
GeForce MX 150 so this is their graphics
cards that kind of replaces the 940 MX
it's kind of like a mobile version of
the GT 1030 and pretty good build
quality on this thing is not bad it's
mostly plastic grooved finish up top the
keyboard deck is aluminum with a bit of
flex if you're putting a lot of pressure
on it but nothing abnormal it's got a
good hinge design kind of one hand open
abaut if you go slowly enough it's
relatively thin and light for a 15-inch
laptop and the overall build quality was
better than I thought it would be for
the price the port selection is good it
has a standard array of USB 3 the
standards to me are the u s-- pc port
doesn't support thunderbolt 3 but that's
expected and there's also an Ethernet
port which isn't common at all for
laptops in this price range accessing
the internals is pretty easy for the two
and a half inch drive and the memory you
can use these hatches the configuration
I'm running comes with a total of 8 gigs
of RAM if you've removed the whole
bottom panel you can change the Wi-Fi
card and the SSD the included SSD uses a
SATA interface I don't think this laptop
can handle PCIe drives I tried a couple
and they didn't seem to work the battery
down here is a 48 watt hour battery and
I'm getting a little bit over five hours
of battery life now I think a lot of
that has to do with the fact that this
is running new processors these are just
more energy efficient than a lot of the
quad-core CPUs that we see in 15-inch
laptops but yeah
battery life on this thing pretty good
the screen is OK it's not amazing it's
an IPS panel with mediocre color gamut
brightness is not bad I mean it could be
better but for indoor use it's not an
issue viewing angles are pretty good and
there's no significant backlight bleed
obviously this isn't the best screen out
there but for the money it's pretty good
the speakers are located on the bottom
and well I got to be honest they sound
below average for a 15-inch laptop
despite this true harmony branding on
the sticker
get reasonably loud but the audio
quality isn't great the keyboard is
actually really nice for a $600 laptop
screen fault all the way flat good to
know if you've never used a keyboard
with a number-pad the positioning is a
little bit weird the keys are responsive
and the layout is comfortable but it
doesn't have backlighting now part of me
is glad that I didn't stick red LEDs
into this to make it into some gaming
thing but for some people no
backlighting will be a deal-breaker not
a big deal for me and if you're using it
for school or for most works unless you
work like it's in the Batcave or
something then it should be okay it has
a Windows precision trackpad which I
like tracking as great gestures are
responsive the button clicks feel a
little shallow and the surface is a
smooth simple plastic it's not textured
it's not glass but the overall trackpad
experience is good and it's really nice
to see inexpensive laptops like this
using good trackpad software now if
there's one gripe I have about this
whole system it's the amount of
bloatware they have installed it's only
a 5 minute jobs nuke at all but every
time is he Norton pre-installed on a
computer I die a little bit on the
inside alright let's talk about
performance the MX 150 is a 25 wide TDP
chip that's similar in power consumption
to the 940 MX from the previous
generation but this time the performance
is significantly better on some
benchmarks we're looking at pretty much
double the performance you realize how
crazy that is in one year this category
of GPU has doubled in performance at the
same wattage like that's super
impressive 10 series GPUs thumbs up it's
not some crazy GPU pushing out 4k games
but this is the first $600 laptop that I
could comfortably play games on now the
drivers are still relatively new but
here are some frame rates from games
you're looking at performance that is
better than the 950 m and really close
to the 960 m from last year now this
laptop uses a 2 core CPU so some games
might feel a little choked if they're
more CPU dependent and same with video
editing even 1080p video edits won't do
great on this just because of the CPU
but in general I think it's a very good
pairing between the i-5 and the MX 150
there's no heavy throttling when I was
running stress tests and thermal
management is also good the internal and
external temperatures are comfortable
fan noise is also quieter than normal
these you processors are pretty easy to
cool ok so here's the deal the aspire 5
starts at $400 but
I'm running comes in at $600 for the
money you're getting a laptop with a
plastic chassis and mostly plastic
paneling but with a very respectable
build quality you get a Tandy piece
screen that has reasonable brightness
but mediocre color gamut and color
accuracy the keyboard is comfortable
types well and it's got an aluminum deck
but sadly has no backlighting the
trackpad works nicely there's nothing I
really dislike about it inside the CPU
and GPU are well matched with each other
the combo is great for school or work
and it delivers good performance for
light to moderately demanding games the
RAM and storage are easily replaced and
lastly we have a 48 watt hour battery
that can squeeze about five hours of
battery life so I think Easter did a
really good job in the inspire I think
for $600 this is a surprisingly good
laptop but the question some people
might have is do you purchase this for
600 or do you get one of the $800 gaming
laptops and those have a gtx 1050
obviously there's a relatively big
difference in price but this thing is
also a lot thinner and lighter than
those so if weight is a consideration
for you if you need to travel frequently
with your gaming laptop take a look at
this line I think this is really good
for the month
[Music]